Title: Assertiveness
Date: 2004-01-03 18:58
Author: Kristopher Johnson
Tags: self-indulgence, stuttering
Slug: assertiveness

The most significant personal change I've gone through in the past few
years is an increase in my assertiveness. I am a very different person
from who I used to be, due to this change.

I am a stutterer. That, coupled with natural introversion, caused me to
grow up avoiding any situation where I had to talk to anyone. Many
people fear speaking because they think they will sound stupid, but a
stutterer *knows* he will sound stupid no matter what he is saying. All
through childhood and college, I avoided any role or situation that
required me to speak up.

I was able to keep my mouth mostly shut for several years when I started
working. I only had to talk to my boss and a few co-workers. So I was
able to get things done, but I shied away from any roles or situations
where I would have to speak my mind to people outside that circle. I
also avoided looking for better jobs, because I dreaded the interview
process.

Then, I got promoted. I was put in charge of development of an important
project. I faced a crisis: my job now required me to speak to clients
and higher level managers, and to tell other people what to do, but I
didn't think I could do that. I considered all sorts of ways to avoid
those responsibilities, but none made sense. So, I just decided I would
just do it, because it was my job.

And a funny thing happened: it learned it was surprisingly easy. I asked
people to do things, and they did it. I explained technical issues to
clients, and they understood and believed what I was saying. I talked to
those scary upper-level managers, and they turned out to be pretty cool
guys who trusted my judgment. All my fears had been unfounded.

It makes me a little sad to think about all the missed opportunities I
had before learning this simple lesson at age 35. I wish I had gone out
and played with other kids instead of sitting in my room reading books.
I wish I had taken advantage of everything that was available in
college, instead of just sitting in the back row, keeping my mouth shut,
and passing the tests. I wish I had talked to more girls when I was in
my teens and twenties. I know there's no going back, so I just have to
console myself by realizing that I won't have to miss future
opportunites. I think I've finally grown up.

After my epiphany, I now have little sympathy for programmers who
complain that their managers don't let them do what they want. Managers
aren't stupid; if you think you have a good idea, then tell them about
it and fight for it. If you don't like your job, then go get a better
one.

Having become assertive myself, I have a greater respect for other
assertive people. I once thought people like that were just arrogant
jerks, but now I understand that they are just fighting for their
beliefs and ideas the same way that I am. I would much rather argue with
another intelligent assertive person than to try to talk to someone who
just agrees with everything rather than presenting their own opinions.

I hate to sound like a motivational speaker, but this is the one lesson
I've learned that I want to share with the world. If there is something
you want to say, then say it. If there is something you want to do, then
do it. Nobody else is going to say and do these things for you. The
course of your life is up to you.

