Title: Helicopters and Simulations
Date: 2004-01-11 19:55
Author: Kristopher Johnson
Tags: helicopter
Slug: helicopters-and-simulations

I've always been fascinated by helicopters. The way they float in the
air, and the throbbing "chop-chop-chop" provide a Zen-like experience
for me, where I can stop thinking and just *experience* the helicopter
overhead.

Actually learning to fly a helicopter would be nice, but I'm not willing
to devote the time and money required to do so. But I like models. When
I was a kid, I spent many hours/days with the Mattel
[VertiBird](http://www.whirlybirdcentral.com/downloads/7604.pdf) toy
helicopter. I looked into RC helicopters a few years ago, but at the
time they were very expensive and lacking in capabilities.

A couple of months ago, my interest was re-kindled when I ran across
some small electric RC helicopters designed to fly indoors. This is
perfect for me; I am an apartment dweller, and I don't have wide open
spaces available for larger RC aircraft. The thought of flying a small
chopper from room to room intrigued me. I put in on my Christmas list,
but I guess my friends and family didn't want to spend several hundred
dollars on my gift (cheap buggers). So I guess I'm going to have to buy
it myself.

While reading various online pages about the mini-helicopters, I noticed
many recommendations to "use the simulator" when learning to fly. At
first I was amused to find out that there are flight simulators for
model aircraft, but it does make sense. A crash of a model can require
expensive repairs (both to the craft and to whatever it hit), so a safe
simulation is important. So I've bought the
[simulator](http://www.rc-soar.com/tech/piccofly.htm). I hope to have
several hours of simulated flight time under my belt before flying the
real model helicopter.

So, my interest in real helicopters led to an interest in model
helicopters, and that in turn led to an interest in simulated model
helicopters. I'm definitely moving between meta-levels here. My only
regret is that neither the model nor the simulation is going to provide
a satisfyingly thunderous "chop-chop-chop". I guess I'll need a
simulated digitized synthesized sound effect for that.

