Title: I Suck
Date: 2004-03-31 06:06
Author: Kristopher Johnson
Tags: rant
Slug: i-suck

Well, my project at work is nearing its deadline, which means we are all
working 70-80 hours a week without any days off.

This is dumb. Dumb, dumb, dumb. I'm stupid for doing it, and the people
I work with are just as stupid. But we're doing it anyway. Why?

Of course, the only reason I'm doing it is because everyone else is
doing it. I know I am not more productive this way. I know my
assignments won't get done any faster. I know I'm burning myself out
without good reason. I know it's the incompetent managers who should be
suffering rather than me. But here I am, tired, pissed-off, and
fantasizing about the perfect resignation letter.

I often think that I've matured as a developer (and as a person). I
think that I've learned my lessons and will not repeat past mistakes.
And then I make the same mistakes over again. What's worse: making a
mistake I've never made before, or making the same mistake again and
again? What the hell is wrong with me?

I'm weak. I don't have the courage to say "No", or to ask "Remember what
complete shit we created the last time we worked ourselves to
exhaustion?" I've spent the past six months trying to fix all the stuff
we threw together at the last minute from the last project, and now I
know we're setting ourselves up for another six months of bug fixing on
this project.

I'm on autopilot. I'm just doing what's expected of me. I look at the
list of fifty things that need to get done in the next week, and instead
of saying "This is impossible," I just go on to the next item.

Maybe next time I'll do the right thing. But this time, I'm sticking
with what is familiar. I'm an idiot.

