Title: My R/C Helicopter
Date: 2004-02-07 17:39
Author: Kristopher Johnson
Tags: helicopter
Slug: my-rc-helicopter

I've had my [Piccolo R/C model helicopter](http://www.pgoelz.com/piccolo1.html) for a couple of weeks
now. I've had a total flying time of about 60 seconds. The average
flight lasts two or three seconds, and many of them end in a "crash",
which I define as "a landing that makes me wait for glue to dry before I
can fly again". But they say any landing you can walk away from is a
good one, and I've walked away from them all.

I've spent about $50 for replacement parts over these two weeks (I've
broken the swashplate, the tail rotor, the main rotor and one of the
push rods). I've also preemptively purchased $50 worth of additional
parts that I expect to need in the coming weeks. I was grounded for four
days waiting for parts to arrive, so I'm planning ahead.

It's been a lot of fun. I haven't built any models since I was a
teenager, so putting this thing together was almost a new experience.
The instructions were clear enough to follow, but also cryptic enough
that I had to figure out many things for myself. I had to develop my own
assembly techniques for manipulating small parts; I never thought I'd be
able to get the 1.5-mm-long bolts screwed into the right places with my
normal-sized hands and tools, but I did it.

The one thing I haven't quite figured out is the Piccoboard, a little
printed-circuit board that handles the mixing of main rotor and tail
rotor throttles. It has a couple of potentiometers to be adjusted, and
I'm not sure I'm doing it right. It seems that any adjustment either has
no effect or has a disasterous effect. More experimentation is needed.

Most of my flying has been inside my apartment, which is really too
small for a beginning helicopter pilot (hence the frequent crashes). The
chopper hasn't done much damage to my walls or furniture. There is a
nice open area in the parking lot where I have flown a few times, but it
has been pretty windy lately.

I don't quite have the hang of stable hovering yet, but I'm pretty sure
I'll be able to do it pretty soon. Using the computer simulator has
helped me get accustomed to the controls, but controlling a real
helicopter in front of me is a lot different from controlling an
onscreen copter. I never have to worry about flying the helicopter into
my own body with the simulator, whereas that is a constant concern with
the real one. But the real one is actually a little easier, because I
can use binocular vision and my ears to get a better sense of what the
heli is doing and where it is heading.

Having a little helicopter is really cool. I've found that I get a lot
less frustrated at work these days, because I'm always thinking about
that next flight.

