Title: My Failed Contracting Career
Date: 2003-12-31 03:59
Author: Kristopher Johnson
Tags: contracting, self-indulgence
Slug: my-failed-contracting-career

After my last permanent position, I took a few months off from work, and
then tried to start a career as an independent consultant/contractor.
After many years of hearing about the freedom enjoyed by consultants,
and the exhorbitant fees they charged, I wanted to get my piece of the
action. People encouraged me to give it a try, because I had many of the
traits associated with independents: desire for variety, lots of
knowledge, no trouble voicing my opinions, and no dependents who would
go hungry if I couldn't find work.

My primary motivation was the desire to be independent. I wanted that
whole be-you-own-boss thing. I wanted to be able to work less than 40
hours a week when I felt like it. I wanted to be able to choose which
assignments to take. I wanted to be able to decide what new computer to
buy and which development tools to use.

Unfortunately, this was mid 2002, and as all you people more clued into
reality than me know, that was a bad time to try to start a contracting
career. Established contractors were having trouble finding work. Those
who were finding work had to charge fractions of what they used to
charge.

The biggest reason I failed as a contractor was that I didn't have the
business sense for it. I didn't know anything about marketing. I didn't
know what my market niche would be. I didn't have a lot of contacts in
the industry. I hoped I could just post my resum√© on my web site, and
jobs would start rolling in.

I did get a few calls, but most of them were for things that I wasn't
really prepared to do. For example, my resume lists Oracle and OpenVMS.
I was contacted by someone who needed me to provide training for
employees who would be administering Oracle on an OpenVMS system. Ten
years ago, when Oracle on OpenVMS was what I was doing, I may have been
able to do it, but it had been so long that I didn't think I could do a
reasonable job, so I had to pass. There were several other similar
opportunities that I passed on as well.

In hindsight, I wonder if I should have taken a few of those jobs. I
wouldn't have known what I was doing, but it would have been work and it
could have led to something I knew better. I have never been comfortable
claiming to be able to do things that I don't really know I can do.
Other consultants don't have that problem.

I did manage to land a contract with a former employer. They did pay me
well, but unfortunately only had a few hours of work per month for me to
do.

Eventually, I gave up on the idea of being completely independent, and
signed up with one of those organizations that hires people out as
contractors. I got a good gig with them, but for no more money than I
would have received as a permanent employee, and without security or
benefits.

So, I gave up on contracting, and got a permanent job.

Will I ever go independent or start my own business again? Maybe. I
think I do have a strong entrepreneurial streak, and a disdain for
working at the direction of others. But I'm not going to try it again
until I have a better idea about what products or services I will
provide, and who will pay for them.

