Title: 53
Slug: 53
Date: 2020-03-18 19:34:12.558546
Category: Blog
Tags: self-indulgence, birthday

Another belated birthday post, and another reminder to myself that I really want to get into the habit of blogging often.

We moved into a house last year, after several years of renting. We like it. It is a little farther away from our jobs than we would like, but we got a good deal on it. We moved in a little too late to do springtime yard maintenance last year, so it's looking a little ragged, but this year we plan to clean up the pine island in front and make the backyard look nicer.

My job last year was more interesting than I would have liked. I was "promoted" to Team Lead after our former leader stepped down (and departed completely soon thereafter). What was supposed to be a short-term keep-everything-running position while we searched for a new software-development executive turned into six unpleasant months of trying to keep people around me happy and productive. I wasn't successful in that, but the position was eventually filled and I was able to settle back into an individual-contributor role.

Every other time I've been promoted to management at a job, I've quit soon thereafter, so maybe I'm maturing.

I'm applying for a Master of Science degree program at Georgia Tech, starting this fall. I've long wanted to return to school, and they offer an online program, so I can do it part-time while still keeping my job. I've enjoyed taking online courses in data science and machine learning, and I would like to try something more challenging and get something more significant than "certificates" for my ongoing studies.

I updated my ten-year-old [Menubar Countdown](menubar-countdown-21.html) application and put it on the [Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/menubar-countdown/id1485343244?mt=12) late last year. It's nice to see that two or three people download it every day and it's gotten some good reviews.

I lost some loved ones this year. My paternal grandmother passed away a few weeks after her 99th birthday, and we lost our little dog [Blitz](blitz.html) to cancer.

Otherwise, my wife, stepson, and four other dogs are doing well, as are my parents and brothers and their families.

My wife is still bowling with her leagues and enjoying it a lot. I dropped out of my martial arts classes last spring when work got in the way too often, but I hope to resume that this year.

As I write this, the country has just started working-from-home and social-distancing due to the COVID-19 virus.  I hope life will be back to normal, maybe a "new normal", when it's time to write my "54" post.

