Title: 47
Date: 2014-01-19 19:17:58
Category: Blog
Slug: 47
Alias: 2014/01/19/47/
Tags: self-indulgence, birthday


Another annual State of the Kris message:

The biggest change for my family this year was moving from our little mountain cabin in Dahlonega to a house in Cumming. This puts us closer to the schools where Pebble teaches and where Bailey learns. Instead of spending two hours commuting per day, we now spend about 30 minutes.

I used to joke that we should just move to exit 14, since that’s where we spent our weekends shopping. Now we’re here.

Our five dogs love the big fenced-in wooded backyard. They get to chase deer once in a while. (I don't know what a Yorkshire Terrier would do if it caught a deer, but I'm not worried about that happening.)

I ran two half marathons this year, and I’m preparing to run a marathon in March. I’ll probably also try to run the Atlanta Marathon in October. After that, I suspect I will be finished with marathons, but will keep running twenty or thirty miles per week. I enjoy running, and like being in better shape than I have been for the past couple decades.

Pebble is now working at North Forsyth High School, teaching courses in forensics and agricultural science. She seems less stressed-out than she did while working at the middle school.

Bailey is really enjoying the marching band. His band went to a competition in New York, and they took third place. The band will be going to London in December.

I usually make a list of goals for each year. However, I rarely consult that list after making it, so I’m not going to bother this year. I hope to run two marathons, and I hope to learn to play piano, but I really just want to enjoy life in our new home.
